# CISC440 Fall 2019 Hw5

AdvancedBNB

Letian Zhang, Yixiong Wu
 
In this final project, we need to write a 3-D game using OpenGl and GLSL. The requirements that our game must had are following.

// requirements

An environment which consists primarily of 3-D objects, rather than 2-D sprites (although these are allowed). The view of the environment should not be purely plan or elevation, but rather something closer to isometric. Your camera may be perspective or orthographic.
User control through keyboard or mouse input
Objects must move smoothly, camera views (if they change) must change smoothly. Your game can still be turn-based: a recent student had a very nice chess implementation in which the pieces "flew" to their next square
At least one texture-mapped element
At least one 3-D element which is "lit" with diffuse and/or specular lighting.

Also, since we are doing group work, we also need to include two following additional elements in the game. 

Incorporate more features of Bullet physics (i.e., something beyond gravity and/or collision with a plane)
3-D or 4-D value/Perlin noise (this does not count as the texture-mapped element above)
Environment/reflection mapping
Shadow mapping
Billboards/impostors
A scoreboard or other text-based overlay about what is going on (this also does not count as your texture-mapped element)
"Complicated" 3-D objects (i.e., NOT platonic solids)

For additional elements, we choose "Complicated" 3-D and Billboard.

//what is our game 

Our game is a maze and strategy game which inspired by a famous game called Crazy Arcade. We implement some mechanisms to fulfill the requirements of the project. There is one character, and three enemies. The player need to kill the enemies using water bombs. If the player get chased up other characters, the player will lose some HP, or if the player is damaged by the water bomb, the HP will also decrease. Once the player set a water bomb, after several seconds, the water bomb will explode and create a cruciform shaped blast. If anyone who has been impacted by that blast, they will lose some HP. If anyone loss all their HP, they will die. The blast can also destroy some obstacles on the map. 

//how to play our game

The player can move up, down, right and left, and also they can set up a bomb. 
  UP: ↑
  Down: ↓
  RIGHT: →
  LEFT: ←
  SET WATER BOMB: SPACE

//how we made the game

1. We have many 3D objects in this game: Ground, Water Column, Wooden Boxes, Bricks, Character, Enemies, Water Bombs. The position of the camera is fixed, the camera looks at the map from above, but the view is not a flat view, because we also move the camera along the z axis, which shows more details of our game.

2. We use arrow keys and space key to control the character

3. Everthing moves smoothly in this game

4. We have texture on ground, wooden boxes, bricks, character, water bombs, and enemies, water column

5. All Objects in the scene have ambient, defuse, and specular lighting

Since we have are two Undergraduates we have two additional elements
6.Complicated 3-D objects: Character, Enemy

7.Billboards: character and each enemy has a health bar that indicates their health above them.
  
